---
title: DSA 2026
permalink: /dsa-2026/
variant: tiptap
description: ""
---
<h1><strong>Direct School Admission Exercise – Admission to Secondary 1 in 2027</strong></h1>
<p>If you are a Primary Six pupil, you can be considered for direct admission
if you are exceptionally talented in the following:</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Sports and Games: Basketball (Boy), Floorball (Boy), Netball (Girl), Volleyball
(Boy/Girl)</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Performing Arts: Concert Band (Boy/Girl), Chinese Orchestra (Boy/Girl)</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Language and Humanities: Malay Language</p>
<p></p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>As part of the BPian family, you can look forward to many enriching and
fun activities to stretch your potentials and develop your talents. These
include:</p>
<table style="minWidth: 50px">
<colgroup>
<col>
<col>
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Sports and Games, Performing Arts</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Malay Language</strong>
</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Immersion programmes</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Music and sports-related clinics and camps</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Leadership development programmes</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>CCA Values-In-Action activities</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Malay Language and Literary workshops &amp; competitions</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Malay Drama and musical performances</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Malay Literature in upper secondary level.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h4><strong><u>(I) Eligibility Criteria</u></strong></h4>
<p>Applicants must meet the following criteria under the respective talent
area:</p>
<ol data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p><strong>Basketball (Boy), Floorball (Boy), Netball (Girl), Volleyball (Boy &amp; Girl)</strong>
</p>
</li>
</ol>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Member of Basketball, Floorball, Netball or Volleyball CCA for at least
2 years preferred.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Student of Junior Sports Academy (JSA) programme preferred.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Relevant training and game experiences preferred.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Participated in National School Games (NSG) competitions preferred.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<ol start="2" data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p><strong>Concert Band (Boy/Girl)</strong>
</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Meet at least one of the following:</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Member of Band for at least 2 years.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Minimum of 2 years playing experience in woodwind, brass or percussion
instrument.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Participated in national (eg SYF) and/or international level band performances/competitions.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<ol start="3" data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p><strong>Chinese Orchestra (Boy/Girl)</strong>
</p>
</li>
</ol>
<p>Meet at least one of the following:</p>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Demonstrate strong talent and interest in Chinese Orchestra.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Minimum of 2 years playing experience in Chinese Orchestra.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Participated in national (eg. SYF) and or international level Chinese
Orchestra performances/competitions.</p>
<p></p>
</li>
</ul>
<ol start="4" data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p><strong>Malay Language&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;</strong>
</p>
</li>
</ol>
<ul data-tight="true" class="tight">
<li>
<p>Achieved consistently good academic results in Malay Language.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Achieved good academic results in all other subjects</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Active participation in activities related to the use of Malay Language.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p><em>Applicants who do not have prior experience may also apply. The school will assess applicants based on the selection criteria, which may include assessing the potential of the applicants.</em>
</p>
<h4><strong><u>(II) Selection Process:</u></strong></h4>
<p>Selection will be based on how well the applicant meets the eligibility
criteria. Proofs of applicant’s areas of strength and achievements are
essential. Meeting all the criteria does not guarantee that the student
will be shortlisted/given an offer.</p>
<p>Shortlisted applicants will be required to undergo a selection trial (for
Sports and Games), audition (for Band and Chinese Orchestra), or assessment
(for Malay Language), followed by an interview — except for Sports and
Games, where only shortlisted applicants will be interviewed.</p>
<p></p>
<p>2.1 Sports DSA:</p>
<p>a. General motor ability</p>
<p>b. Sports specific skills</p>
<p>c. Applicants are to report in sports attire and sport shoes.</p>
<p>2.2 Concert Band:</p>
<p>a. Sight reading: To be given by Band Director</p>
<p>b. 2 Contrasting Pieces: To prepare 2 contrasting pieces of own choice</p>
<p>c. Scales: Bb Concert; Eb Concert; Ab Concert; Db Concert; C Concert</p>
<p>d. Applicants can choose to use their personal instrument, or the one
provided by the school during the DSA audition.</p>
<p>2.3 Chinese Orchestra:</p>
<p>a. Sight reading: To be given by Conductor</p>
<p>b. Perform 2 contrasting pieces of choice on the instrument.</p>
<p>c. May play selected excerpt of each piece.</p>
<p>d. Total time should not exceed 5 minutes.</p>
<p>e. Applicants can choose to use their personal instrument or the one provided
by the school during the DSA audition.</p>
<p>2.4 Malay Language: Applicants are required to complete a written assessment.</p>
<p>In addition to the criteria specific to the talent areas, all potential
students must demonstrate:</p>
<p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Passion and motivation</p>
<p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Commitment and resilience</p>
<p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Good conduct</p>
<p>·&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Positive influence</p>
<h4><strong><u>(III) Schedule</u></strong></h4>
<table style="minWidth: 75px">
<colgroup>
<col>
<col>
<col>
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p><strong>Date</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p><strong>Process</strong>
</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>6 May 2026, 11am</p>
<p>to</p>
<p>2 Jun 2026, 4.30pm.</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p>Online application at DSA-Sec portal.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>By 2 July 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p>Shortlisted applicants will be informed of the selection trial/audition
and interview via email.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>2, 9, 23 &amp; 30 Jul 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>Selection trial and interview for <strong>Basketball</strong>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="4" colspan="1">
<p>Applicants will be required to attend <strong><u>only 1 session</u></strong>.</p>
<p>Reporting information will be provided in the email.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>7 &amp; 9 Jul 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>Selection trial and interview for <strong>Floorball</strong>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>30 Jun &amp; 2 Jul 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>Selection trial and interview for <strong>Netball</strong>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>3, 7, 9 &amp; 10 Jul 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>Selection trial and interview for <strong>Volleyball</strong>.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>10 Jul 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p>Audition and interview for <strong>Concert Band </strong>and<strong> Chinese Orchestra</strong>,
2.30pm to 6pm. Each applicant will take no longer than 45 minutes.</p>
<p>Reporting information will be provided in the email.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>8 July 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p>Assessment for <strong>Malay Language</strong>, 3.30pm to 4.30pm</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>15 July 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>Shortlisted applicants for <strong>Malay Language</strong> will be notified
via email by 15 July 2026 for the interview.</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>23 July 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p>Interview for <strong>Malay Language</strong>.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>17- 28 Aug 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p>Release of DSA results via email.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>19- 23 Oct 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p>Primary School: Exercise School Preference Stage.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="1">
<p>By end Nov 2026</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="1" colspan="2">
<p>Primary School: Results Release Stage by MOE.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h4><strong><u>(IV) Application Procedure (6 May 2026, 11am – 2 Jun 2026, 4.30pm):</u></strong></h4>
<p>Application for DSA-Sec can be submitted through the online DSA-Sec Portal.
The application is free-of-charge and will be open from 6 May 2026, 11am
to 2 Jun 2026, 4.30pm. For more details, please refer to MOE website –
www.moe.gov.sg/dsa-sec</p>
<p>Parents and students are encouraged to choose schools wisely based on
the student’s aptitudes and strengths, bearing in mind the schools’ academic
and non-academic requirements, and the programmes available to develop
the area of talent.</p>
<p>Students who are successfully admitted to Bukit Panjang Government High
School via DSA are expected to (a) honour their commitment to the school
and (b) to participate in the activities related to the talent they are
selected in for the duration of the programme admitted to. For DSA talent
areas associated with a CCA, they are also expected to remain in their
CCA. Students who are not able to fulfil the DSA commitment without valid
reasons may be required to transfer out to another school.</p>